EDM-1076: Improve docs for installing fctl on disconnected env (#930)
flightctl/flightctl: docs/user/disconnected-cluster.md

# Installing a Flight Control in a Disconnected Cluster Environment

## Mirror images

> ### Mirror flightctl images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Mirroring Flight Control images
```

Author: fixed all

```shell
export FCTL_VERSION=<required_flightctl_version>
export LOCAL_REGISTRY=<registry-hostname>:<registry-port>
```

> 📌 Please note, that you may need to provide credentials for your local registry via `oc image mirror -a <creds_file>`.

```shell
for component in api periodic ui worker; do oc image mirror quay.io/flightctl/flightctl-$component:${FCTL_VERSION} ${LOCAL_REGISTRY}/flightctl/flightctl-$component:${FCTL_VERSION}; done
```

### Mirror other images

```shell
oc image mirror quay.io/keycloak/keycloak:25.0.1 ${LOCAL_REGISTRY}/keycloak/keycloak:25.0.1

oc image mirror quay.io/openshift/origin-cli:4.20.0 ${LOCAL_REGISTRY}/openshift/origin-cli:4.20.0

oc image mirror quay.io/sclorg/postgresql-16-c9s:20250214 ${LOCAL_REGISTRY}/sclorg/postgresql-16-c9s:20250214

oc image mirror docker.io/redis:7.4.1 ${LOCAL_REGISTRY}/redis:7.4.1
```

> The mirroring instructions apply for partially disconnected env, where from your hub you can reach the internet.

Author: fixed, for other instances as well

> For fully disconnected env, you will need to mirror on connected machine to disk/usb and bring the mirrored content to hub. Then mirror to local registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For fully disconnected environments, you will need to mirror images to a disk or USB stick on a connected machine and bring the mirrored content to the disconnected management hub. Then mirror the content to a local registry.
```

Author: fixed

> For fully disconnected environments, you will need to mirror images to a disk or USB stick on a connected machine and bring the mirrored content to the disconnected management hub. Then mirror the content to a local registry.

Reviewer 2: Not sure why u call it 'partially disconnected env'.  The mirroring step is done on some machine, either by cloning from the internet or from usb-drive. But the focus is the cluster itself (it's nodes). i.e. external requests to internet are blocked, and only allowed to local registry ip/port.  and I can call it 'full disconnected env'.

Author: Ok, I rephrased the docs. Let me know if it is better now :)

Example:

```shell
#on machine connected to internet
oc image mirror quay.io/keycloak/keycloak:25.0.1 file://myrepository/keycloak/keycloak:25.0.1
#on disconnected env
oc image mirror file://myrepository/keycloak/keycloak:25.0.1 ${LOCAL_REGISTRY}/keycloak/keycloak:25.0.1
```

## Configure image repository mirroring

Create `ImageTagMirrorSet` with the following content

```shell
oc apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1

> kind: ImageTagMirrorSet

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure at all that this method of redirect by tag is even supported by Openshift...  for sure ImageDigestMirrorSet is supported.

Author: This is based on the official docs https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.13/html/images/image-configuration#images-configuration-registry-mirror_image-configuration

```
For new clusters, you can use IDMS, ITMS, and ICSP CRs objects as desired. However, using IDMS and ITMS is recommended.
```

Author: For the future releases, we will want to add proper digest support, which will allow us to document IDMS too. That way user can pick their preferred way.
